          ode absorbed into the app (ML training ~quarterly in cloud sand
          boxes, shadow rollout); Python core, Rust UI later, no Electron
          , no MQL; forex on cTrader first, crypto later via agent-built 
          adapters; no central backtest engine — backtesting decentralize
          s into callable QMF components; build method = factory pipeline
          , validation inside factory runs (modules ship with reference u
          sage + tests); defaults ≠ mock data, mock data never ships, pro
          duct ships with no bots; total clean slate (old repos deleted).

  Wrote 1 memory (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ i am still reading the artifact hang on                                       

● Take your time — one heads-up: refresh the page before you continue. It just
  updated to v4 with your rulings baked in — Block B now reads "Kernel: BUILD,
  ratified, spike cancelled," the prop-firm decision is removed from Block E
  entirely (deferred to the agentic era, machinery-only in QMF), and the kernel
  card carries your four arguments instead of the spike. Everything else you
  were reading is unchanged.

✻ Baked for 1m 54s

※ recap: We're finalizing QMX's day-one ratification pack: research done, kernel build ratified, prop-firm deferred. You were reading the QMF Minimal Core artifact (v4). Next action: give your yes/no on blocks A, C, D and E.
❯ Now, something else I think you kind of forgot, and I'm just curious how you  
  forgot about it. You do recall that QMF is a framework. You remember the five 
  hats we talked about? Yeah, if you suggested this guy Nautilus, if you        
  suggested his thing or whatever, their thing, you are not considering all the 
  five hearts because I remember telling you, we are to consider all of them,   
  which means we have to create adapters again to connect to their thing. Yet   
  instead, we would have built everything in-house with proper uniformity. That 
  again is removing the bloody uniformity. Okay, also, you know, if this guy    
  decides tomorrow that, okay, I don't want to share this, or okay, I want to   
  put a pay wall behind this. You see, we are stuck. Or if we commits and       
  removes certain things because the community claims they don't want it, but   
  for us, we do. Alright, so now the backtest engine, this is something I think 
  we need to really think through seriously. Is it an engine? Okay, actually,   
  it's no longer even a backtesting, a backtest engine, it's just backtesting   
  as a library. Okay, because it's like I've explained above, you know, we try  
  to reduce the amount of compute needed. Okay? To remove it to be from you     
  know centralized to now on demand because most agents are going to be running 
  in sandboxes or VPSs. I don't know if you get me. Because there are so many   
  ways you can do this, but that will depend on the identic architecture. When  
  I purchase one VPS, which is very, you know, they call them bare metal or     
  whatever, very high performance. Like I told you, a Ryzen 9 CPU. Okay, so     
  which means it's very high performance. Okay, this means I can load as many   
  agents as possible because we can calculate how fast the backtesting can      
  happen. Okay, so now, anyway, let me first stop ranting and read through your 
  stuff. So you are saying the library is equals QMX own five contracts.        
  Really, really? Well, that's ironic. And how is it a thousand five hundred    
  lines of assembly fabricating proof fabrication proofing of six mechanism     
  team first now? Oh my god, whoa. Okay, first put the bug testing on hold      
  because I had actually forgotten something. I meant back testing on hold. I   
  had forgotten something because I just recalled the conversation I had, and   
  it was going to change how we handle backtesting overall. The conversation    
  was as follows. Let me see if I recall it. Okay, the whole idea was we try.   
  Okay, the idea was we tried to do the back testing in levels instead of front 
  instea                                                                        
  ──── (0 lines hidden) ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────── 
  ing strategies? Because remember, I told you the whole point is that this     
  system has to be agent-ready, so it means, I mean, think about, look at       
  React.js, okay, or TypeScript. These things are built, any agent can          
  understand them, because sure you can be like they have been trained on the   
  data, but there is documentation for even new libraries. So, we need to look  
  at maybe core concepts in software engineering, like clean code, modulation,  
  stuff like that. I'm not even a software engineer, but you get the idea. So,  
  for me, I feel like you really, really underscored, really underscored. I     
  don't know why, maybe you because the things you are producing are not making 
  sense in my opinion. Because you are saying the report scaffolding, I         
  haven't seen it. I actually don't know what it is. QMF Core, I haven't seen   
  it, I don't know what it is. QMF model and QMF Errors, I don't know what it   
  is. Okay, I know what those are. I know ideas of all these, but I don't know  
  what they're doing. Okay, German data, leg splits, that's okay, but again,    
  what are they? So, first, explain that's what I wanted you to break this down 
  because I've been away for a minute, that's my fault. I admit the mistake,    
  but you are assuming a lot of things, I would say. Okay, and in my opinion, I 
  feel like it's a little bit ambiguous, and you're moving too fast. So, slow   
  down. And let's buy I told you it's better if for this session alone we buy   
  it off a little piece, tomorrow we bite off another piece, like that, we go   
  on till a week is done. Trust me, this library, this framework rather cannot  
  take a week, it really can't because most of the things are already being     
  filled in because you've done most of the heavy lifting with which is the     
  deep research. If you to be honest, if you've done the deep research very,    
  very well and you have, should I say, consistent and reusable maps and        
  artifacts and whatnot, like I requested for any agent I'm going to work with  
  tomorrow, other than you, will know what to when I say let's talk about the   
  back testing framework or at the library, it will know what to do. When I ask 
  about a bot, it will know what to do. Even when we reach documentation,       
  because all this is going to be redocumented, and I don't know if you know    
  that, okay? So it means when we reach documentation, the agent documenting is 
  not going to think a lot, okay? Because the whole point right now is we need  
  to be slow but sure and efficient in all that we do. Let me end here          
  dictating. Thank you                                                          

● All of it lands. Recording your rulings first, then rebuilding the artifact
  the way you actually asked — simple words, diagrams, foundation only, nothing
  that belongs to another session.

  Wrote 1 memory (ctrl+o to expand)

● Write(tracker\tickets\008-backtesting-framework.md)
  ⎿  Wrote 19 lines to tracker\tickets\008-backtesting-framework.md
       1 ---
       2 id: 008
       3 title: Backtesting framework (staged funnel)
       4 label: wayfinder:grilling
       5 status: open
       6 assignee:
       7 blocked-by: []
       8 ---
       9 
      10 ## Question
     … +23 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

