╭─── Claude Code v2.1.233 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│                                                    │ Tips for getting        │
│                Welcome back Mubarak!               │ started                 │
│                                                    │ Run /init to create a … │
│                       ▐▛███▜▌                      │ ─────────────────────── │
│                      ▝▜█████▛▘                     │ What's new              │
│                        ▘▘ ▝▝                       │ Added GitLab merge req… │
│ Fable 5 · Claude Max · himselfmubarak@gmail.com's  │ Added an opt-in `forwa… │
│ Organization                                       │ Added opt-in memory cg… │
│                   ~\Desktop\QMX                    │ /release-notes for more │
╰──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯


❯ /effort                                                                       
  ⎿  Set effort level to ultracode (this session only): xhigh + dynamic workflow
     orchestration

❯ /wayfinder All right, so first of all, I would like to welcome you to this    
session. And it's going to be a long one, but it is one of the very many that   
we are going to start with. Okay, so this is not the only session you're going  
to have. Well, not with you, but this first session, okay, now I'm going to be  
building a platform I've attempted to build multiple times, however, to this    
time we are going to take a very structured approach. And I would like you to   
correct me, tell me her truths where you know things would be going south, you  
know, because I'm not so technical. I would need you to be more of my advisor   
in terms of technicalities. Okay, so what I'm building is a project called QMX. 
Now, that project is meant to be my own custom quantitative trading platform,   
I would call it. Okay, it's actually not quantitative, but algorithmic. Later,  
we shall switch fully to quantitative, but they are kind of the same thing, all 
right now so I had GPT last time recover some information from the trading      
node. Okay, it's claude trading node, but the reason it's claude trading node   
is because the platform I'm trying to build is based on core concepts           
deployments, which by the way, we shall change over time depending on how I see 
things. Alright, so number one, we have our trade ignored. Now, the reason we   
have that thing is because it is trading a node. Now, the reason we have that   
node or a server is because we wanted a server customized for actual trading,   
so with low latency and whatnot. So, if you couple low latency plus you know a  
low spread account and whatnot, you can be very, very good with things like     
scalping and whatnot, if you get what I'm saying. So, that's the first thing,   
but it's just part of a core deployment mechanism. Now, the second thing was    
going to be a back-end server. Now, this is very debatable because depending on 
how we see things, we might not need it or we might. It depends on things,      
yeah. Then, the third thing would have been the agentic node, but we shall see  
how that goes. Alright, so QMX for now we have three core sections. That is the 
trading node. Now, the trading node handles most of the things that deal with   
live trading. Alright, so that right there is very crucial. You know, the core  
concepts need to be precise, surgical, and efficient. Now, the agentic system   
is what has made me to repeat this project so many times. Well, think of it as  
we are doing it the first time because this time I have an actual idea behind   
what I'm trying to do. Okay, now there is that middle part. Now, that middle    
pass is meant to be like, think of it like a database, I would call it. It      
handles longer-running tasks, syncing, machine learning, model training, and    
whatnot. Yeah, so that and that. So, for now, I think the first task I want is  
making sure that the trading node, all stuff that is meant to be on the trading 
node is ready for coding because I want to move quickly. Okay, so I think       
that's one of the first things. Then, the second thing would be in another      
session, I think I'll begin the okay. Now, in fact, I've just thought through   
it. I have something else that I have been thinking through, and the thing is   
that I've seen that I might need to sort of try to create a library, but I      
don't know anything about creating a coding library. Okay, it's actually        
already proposed under QMX, it's called QML, which is the quant mind library.   
Okay, now I don't know if we can have, I don't know if they are called modules, 
yeah, so small sort of features that form up the library. So, for at first,     
QML was made for only you know bots like the trading bots. However, it has      
occurred to me that we might also need something called I'm calling it QMA,     
okay, and the reason it's called that is because it's quantum agents. Yeah,     
because the identic system might actually quant mind agents, is what I'm        
talking about. So, because the agentic system might actually be, you know, kind 
of functioned. Yeah, these things are going to come later. So, I don't know.    
Are we first building the agents? Sorry, are we first building the library? Not 
the agents, but the library, are we first building the node? What do you        
propose? Okay, the stuff that goes on the node. Because I think we actually     
have never sat down to talk through QML, to be honest. I really have never. So, 
yeah, that's that. So, as you can see, we have a lot of work ahead. Okay, now   
feel free to ask me as many questions as you want to remove ambiguity, to help  
me and whatnot, call out any BS. Yeah, and all you should know is that this is  
not the only session we're going to be having. I mean, in fact, this session    
might be even fractioned. This might be, this might handle some parts. Then I   
might start another session to continue this session like that because I want   
to be below 40% of your context pooling or to serve your intelligence, in my    
opinion. Okay, I meant context window on my days. I'm so sorry, I'm dictating,  
so forgive me for any gibberish, but that's that. So, yeah, we can begin. I     
don't know if you want to use dynamic workflows, but I believe you could. I     
have no problem with that if you want to, anyway, though sub-agents can be      
faster at times, to be honest. yeah, so take your time. yeah, I actually need   
to give you the link to the Git book. Okay, that's mostly it. So, take your     
time. You're going to do a lot of work today, but the first part is getting     
some things out of the way to be ready for coding. But I think the library      
might come first. What do you reckon? All right, that's it. So, let's begin.    
So, yeah, this is more of ideas in trying to scope work down, please            

● I'll start by looking at what's already in the QMX directory and checking for
  any tracker or memory setup, then load the grilling and domain-modeling skills
  to chart the map with you.

  Ran 3 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● Found the recovered material from your last attempt. Reading it before we
  talk.

  Searched for 1 pattern, read 4 files, ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ her is the link to gitbook [[https://elios-1.gitbook.io/qmx]]]                

● Skill(grilling)
  ⎿  Successfully loaded skill

● Skill(domain-modeling)
  ⎿  Successfully loaded skill

  Read 1 file, wrote 4 memories (ctrl+o to expand)

