         + / force-flat / protective stop / discretionary exit · hold-tim
         +e force-flat vs no-overnight relationship. **qmf-core proceeds 
         +only with framework-neutral primitives and freezes none of thes
         +e.**                                                           

● Spec reconciled too. Now building the discussion artifact for the five locks —
  loading the design skill first as required.

● Skill(artifact-design)
  ⎿  Successfully loaded skill

● Write(artifacts\2026-08-18-five-locks.html)
  ⎿  Wrote 323 lines to artifacts\2026-08-18-five-locks.html
       1 <title>The Five Locks</title>
       2 <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?f
         =Public+Sans:wght@400;600&family=IBM+Plex+Mono:wght@500&display=
         swap">
       3 <style>
       5     --bg: #FAFAF7;
       6     --surface: #FFFFFF;
       7     --ink: #1C2430;
       9     --line: #E3E2DC;
      10     --accent: #0E6E5C;
     … +464 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

● Artifact(C:\Users\Mubarak\Desktop\QMX\artifacts\2026-08-18-five-locks.html)
  ⎿  Published ⧉ 
     https://claude.ai/code/artifact/b708c68b-1e2f-4448-82d2-afad08a0ade9
● User answered Claude's questions:
  ⎿  · D1 — Ratify Lock 1, the Dictionary, as the first brick? This is qmf-core:
     what an Order/Fill/Position/Tick IS, exact money, one world clock — plus 
     six frozen choices (nanosecond clock, venue+symbol identity, TA-Lib as 
     reference math, three backtest honesty levels, the quality bar a strategy 
     must clear, the label on every result). Cheap to decide now, ruinous to 
     change later. → You know, it's really not a good idea to just give me an 
     artifact, then ask me questions right there and then, but it's okay, that's
     just messing around with you. So, I'm looking at artifact right now. In 
     fact, let me still this monitor so that it looks green. Okay, so you are 
     saying I asked for a slide. That's true. Yeah, now a slide is like the five
     building blocks. Not actually, okay, the core, core things, yeah. That 
     once they are built, they're like the actual foundation of the entire 
     framework, which, funny enough, becomes the actual foundation of the entire
     library, sorry, the entire thing. So remember, we have five hearts. This 
     thing is meant to help me do research, development hurts the wearable 
     thing. So, research, development, my edition software, bear with me. I was 
     saying, so research, development, trading, portfolio management. Well, 
     let's start. So, you already have a lot of stuff covered partially, but 
     that's what extensibility was also meant to that's another thing to 
     solidify extensibility logic. So, you're saying none of them is a built. 
     Each of these decisions writes down small. Once they're done, everything is
     a piece. Okay, okay, you're saying the look, the dictionary, please. Now, 
     what I don't get is why you are calling a broker exam. I don't really like 
     that word exam. I don't know what it is. Then you are saying one ID card. 
     Well, yeah, that's good. The agent page, no, let's leave the agents a bit. 
     What do you mean by the agent page? Anyway, let me. You already described 
     everything. Let me first read through. Okay, so the data lake, we are 
     building that. Thank you. Please, for the data lake, handle it like a good 
     data scientist. Okay, remember, agents are going to be using the same data,
     so it means they should be able to copy, or by default, it should allow 
     them to copy, and they don't have to think through proper data science 
     techniques, like you know, you know what I'm talking about, these things of
     splitting data and whatnot. Yeah, now indicators and levels. So, 
     indicators, indicators, there are three things I think we need to consider 
     together with levels, in fact. So, you see, indicators, you are to consider
     heavy indicators. That's the first part. For example, there are indicators
     that are heavy to calculate, you know, they can't be calculated in 
     milliseconds. Remember, we have something called the MIS. So, what we did 
     in the architecture last time is that we put heavy indicators in the MIS. I
     don't know if you could give me examples, and I don't know if you 
     understand what I'm talking about. Now, if you consider that, and then you 
     know, you put in levels, okay, that's the first thing. So, second thing is 
     also indicators at a bot level or in under a strategy. Yeah, that's another
     thing. Then, of course, we can experiment and build our own custom 
     indicators. We've already seen that that's possible using genetic 
     algorithms. Then, the other thing would have been the types of data we 
     should be able to get. Now, this goes to DOM data or level 3 data. So, 
     things like order flow, things like I don't know, we could do something 
     like because the last version of QML had stuff relating to options and 
     whatnot. Okay, what we did is that we did these things of option, gamma, 
     theta levels, and then we sort of did simple calculations. I don't know if 
     you understand what I'm talking about, but we did simple calculations or we
     redid our own versions, but for Forex and crypto. Because crypto is 
     something I believe has many inefficiencies and we can explore and make a 
     lot of money in. So it's just that we haven't looked at it in depth, and we
     shall look at it when QMX is a platform. So, we can extend QMX itself to 
     build a crypto version of it. Okay, not a crypto version, but to extend its
     crypto capabilities. So, for now, I know more about Forex than crypto. So,
     that's indicators. So, there is a lot to look into there. Now, broker 
     adapter, this one is you read proper documentation, please. Please, please,
     please, please. It's not even funny. Read proper documentation, and this 
     goes to mostly that reading node. This is not so big books and BMS. Now, 
     books and the BMS is our okay, it's my own version of what I would consider
     as risk management and position sizing, but I'm thinking, okay, we can 
     have, for example, one type of trading, for example, in the documentation 
     we have scalping, but we can have another version of a scalping book, yeah,
     which means we can, which means there is that lineage, there is that 
     types. I don't know if you get what I mean, categorization and whatnot. 
     Then, the same logic with prop firms. Okay, so that's that, but over time, 
     I think the book and the BMS might change. I'm also thinking, you know, 
     there is a scenario where we shall have more than one BMS. I don't know, 
     because the crypto system is, I don't think, will use exactly this, it 
     might have standalone versions or something like that. So, yeah, that's 
     that. So, books and BMSs under risk management and version sizing, it's the
     stable version I thought I could think of. If you want to enhance it, you 
     propose. All right, let's move on to metrics and reports. Now, metrics and 
     reports is more towards the agentic side of things. So, how we view you 
     know what happened during this backtest, stuff like that. So, what to 
     track, what not to track, what shows if our strategy is right, what shows 
     if a strategy is wrong, but at the same time, being unbiased overall, okay?
     Because one of the core things I wanted with 3MX is it's not just, should 
     I say, being so strict in terms of discovering strategies, or rather, not 
     even discovering testing strategies, and to see if they work or not. I want
     to see the inside than out of the actual strategy. And I believe what I 
     mean by that is that if a strategy is to fail, I want to know why it fails,
     which component fails, or I don't know if that's even possible, but I 
     don't know if you're understanding me. So, because the idea is, yeah, we 
     want to try and get as much information as possible and compare, okay, not 
     even compare, but if we get as much information as possible, if we build a 
     mechanism that allows us to extract strategies, for example, from as much 
     information as possible from the internet, most strategies might fail, 
