╭─── Claude Code v2.1.234 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│                                                    │ Tips for getting        │
│                Welcome back Mubarak!               │ started                 │
│                                                    │ Run /init to create a … │
│                       ▐▛███▜▌                      │ ─────────────────────── │
│                      ▝▜█████▛▘                     │ What's new              │
│                        ▘▘ ▝▝                       │ Added the optional `CL… │
│ Fable 5 · Claude Max · himselfmubarak@gmail.com's  │ Added the `selection:c… │
│ Organization                                       │ Added a GitLab merge r… │
│                   ~\Desktop\QMX                    │ /release-notes for more │
╰──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯


❯ /effort                                                                       
  ⎿  Set effort level to ultracode (this session only): xhigh + dynamic workflow
     orchestration

❯ /wayfinder Okay, so yesterday I was talking with another session and we were  
trying to build okay rebuild QMX which is quantmind X which is should I say     
quant mind rather is the name so I was saying should I say it's more of a I     
will not call it a bloom board but it's more like a my own custom trading       
terminal okay so in it being so or being as such the idea is simple the idea is 
to try as much as possible to make it extensible since it's leveraging AI       
agents okay so we try to go back to the best build since we wanted control over 
everything and we wanted uniformity and should I say oh my god I was saying we  
wanted uniformity we wanted control and order we wanted something that if we    
want to extend it it's simple so it's like we are we wanted to create building  
blocks so the discussion led to us creating what we are calling QMF so QMF is   
Quantmind Framework which contains a lot of quantmind libraries which are QMLs  
okay so yeah the whole idea that I want to explore right now is are we going in 
the right direction are we actually should I okay are we going in the right     
direction is this how our framework is built are we not missing anything and    
what's the at what points can we use as leverage to build this quickly not even 
just quickly so to create something like a slide so that other things can pass  
very quickly because what we have right now for documentation is the quant      
mind trading node and this is a thing that deals with after life trading so it  
is one of the core components of the entire system but it's not the only        
component of the entire system okay so we are looking at around now two         
components I don't know yeah around two components so attached is the           
transcript of the session and what we are going to do is we are going you are   
going to have a few agents go through it okay and in going through it actually  
you can use dynamic workflows you're going to try and understand what we were   
coming up with most of the documents are already updated have a lot of things   
already but I want to go through QMF clearly okay yesterday the whole point     
actually you will see in the transcript that the whole point was me trying to   
point out that we move slowly we burnt off a chunk but once I slept on the idea 
I really discovered there is really not that much to build to be honest the     
whole thing that would have been very difficult to build would have been the    
stuff that goes into the boats and the risk management library and mostly       
that's it but Python is already handling a huge chunk of that in fact this      
framework is in Python so I don't know I'm not so technical I don't even know   
if I said that last part right okay so yeah that's that so you're you're going  
to go through that transcript anyway let me just ex let me just give it to      
you,So, this is more of I would call it a brainstorming and ideation session.   
So, I wanted to call out any issues. I want you to help me find. I won't say    
the fastest way, but the most efficient way because, in my opinion, I don't     
think we are covering a lot of okay. I don't think I'm going to be covering a   
lot of ground. I believe if I point in the right direction, it can help me      
cover a lot of ground, okay? Because you have agents, sub-agents, and whatnot.  
So, that's the idea. Also, he did a lot of research. I think the links and the  
GitHub repos are all still local. So, yeah, it's a huge lot of research the     
transcript [[c:\Users\Mubarak\Desktop\QMX\qmf-1.txt]] try using ask user tool   
and give your opinions , also Try invoking the necessary skills for this        
session. We are not going to do anything much. The whole point is having enough 
context in the session so that documentation factory, the skill I'm going to    
be using for documenting everything, has enough context to work with. Okay, so  
whether you produce stuff out of this or you don't, it doesn't really matter. I 
hope because either way, I'm going to export this session                       

● I'll start by orienting: check the tracker conventions, the transcript size,
  and what's already in the repo — then fan out agents over the transcript.

  Searched for 2 patterns, listed 1 directory (ctrl+o to expand)

● A map already exists (tracker/map.md with 8 tickets) plus 11 research
  documents. Let me load the map and check ticket states before deciding whether
  this is charting or working.

  Read 1 file (ctrl+o to expand)

● Update(tracker\tickets\002-qmf-minimal-core.md)
  ⎿  Added 1 line, removed 1 line
      3  title: QMF minimal core
      4  label: wayfinder:grilling
      5  status: open
      6 -assignee:                                                       
      6 +assignee: claude-session-2026-08-18                             
      7  blocked-by: [001]
      8  ---
      9  

  Searched for 1 pattern, listed 1 directory (ctrl+o to expand)

● Workflow(Digest qmf-1.txt session transcript, cross-check against the
          wayfinder map, synthesize QMF state + gaps + leverage points)
  ⎿  /workflows to view dynamic workflow runs

  Read 1 file (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ I just wanted to tell you that everything you are going to read in terms of   
  tracker and map, some stuff is not really verified yet. Okay, so for me, I    
  think don't take it as core as you think. Okay, it's not so important. After  
  all, we might rebuild most of what we pointed out yesterday, this is a simple 
  nudge as you are reading                                                      

● Skill(grilling)
  ⎿  Successfully loaded skill

● Skill(domain-modeling)
  ⎿  Successfully loaded skill

● While the digest runs, I'm reading the research synthesis so my opinions come
  from the evidence, not just the map.

  Read 1 file (ctrl+o to expand)

