     that being there is we have something we wanted to do which is called alpha
     decay and alpha decay sensing. Now, you see, alpha decay is a huge 
     concept. Yeah, so we should also consider it so much because most 
     strategies we might use might work, but they might decay very quickly. Some
     might be very specific, and we might over time we might experiment with 
     better versions of them, and you know, we come up with new versions. But 
     that doesn't mean that we pause them there and then. We still need a lot of
     data collections or data points. In fact, throughout the entire system, 
     that's something we need to consider so much. That's why yesterday I was 
     saying it a lot and a lot and a lot that we really need to consider the 
     data layer. I don't know why I call it that, but you get what I'm talking 
     about. Because data ingestion or data intake is one thing, data collection 
     after being processed is another. How data is processed is something to 
     also consider. So, there are so many things that go from literally before 
     even a bot starts trading to you know actually search, because the egetetic
     system is also a huge data thing, as you as I've already seen, or as I've 
     already explained. So, when you look at what the agentic system does, when 
     you look at how it processes or how it handles research, you know, 
     automated research, development, backtesting, optimizations if necessary, 
     experiments, all that stuff. Then you go from okay, we've got strategies 
     that we believe can trade live or can trade under specific conditions, then
     the whole point of actually creating QMX as it is is giving a strategy the
     best suitable conditions for it to trade. So, we remove the burden of 
     modeling risk management, we do it at a higher level, and we just give the 
     bot things that it needs to trade. That's why it brought up these things of
     the definition of a strategy under QMX. We have actually, I defined it 
     yesterday in the session. That's where you are seeing things like a level, 
     a trigger, then you let us see something claude confluence, all that 
     nonsense. Yeah, so yeah, I think I'm giving you a bit more information than
     you need, but the data, all that is again data. So, what happens in 
     backtest should be kind of similar to what happens in this. I don't know if
     that's even correct, but it might not be correct. Okay, so you take that 
     up, then okay, if the bots are trading, what do we need to be collecting? 
     If you look at it in terms of an actual portfolio manager, what data do you
     need to be collecting? Because we have a trading journal, we should have a
     trading journal. You know, if a bot is trading, if a book is trading, what
     is the BMS saying? The MIS, the SQS, the kill switch. There are so many 
     things we need to collect. But those are all components, but we still also 
     need to see what is it collecting, how is it collecting it, in what 
     quantity, how long, how often? You get me. So, data alone is a huge, huge 
     concept. And in fact, if you take up because the egentic systems is simple,
     by the way, for data, the part that you know is that is going to mess up 
     the data collection and processing across everything. Not mess up, I feel 
     like it's too big because it needs to be very, very specific. We need to 
     choose the right stat for the right purpose. Yesterday we were proposing 
     ArcticDB. I don't know if it will work, but what I'm trying to say is that 
     there are so many things to collect, so many things to look at, how are 
     they presented? Can we have automatic detection? Because personally, I'm 
     not so technical. So, if this is that, if that is this, but all that is 
     going to need to setting of ranges. So, yeah, there is a lot to consider. 
     So, this point of one card, I think it's a bit abstract. I really do. 
     Because there is so much to consider before you even propose one singular 
     card, in my opinion, and it's not as simple as saying one card because 
     tomorrow, if I decide to, because you see, the problem right now is that we
     are having a level, a trigger abort, but that's for Forex. Yeah, crypto 
     might be different. Pro funds might require something very different. Okay,
     if we go ahead and combine multiple triggers, what happens then? Okay, so 
     this is this can bring about locking ourselves in. So, card number three: I
     feel like you are on the right track, but you've rushed in. So, you might 
     need some agent to actually go deep into card number three. But the ID 
     itself is okay. I don't deny the thing of an ID. I do, but in fact, 
     actually, this is where relational databases come in. I don't know if I'm 
     actually saying the right thing, but if you look at something like Neo4je, 
     for example, Neo4j is a good example. Yeah, now Neo4j, if you look at the 
     graph relationship, we can have it that okay, this strategy is from this 
     lineage, but if you look at that graph, that you know it grows and 
     compounds. I don't know if you picture it properly. The Nia 4G example 
     that's variable also, but anyway, let me first finish reading through the 
     card number three. So, you are saying a book, yeah, okay, I agree. Okay, I 
     already said forgot number three, I agree and disagree because I feel like 
     some things you are combining them when they shouldn't. Because a model, I 
     wonder what you mean by a model. Are you seeing how it can become very 
     ambiguous? Because on card number three, if you're talking about a model, a
     model alone, what is a model? Are you talking about a machine learning 
     model, a trading model? Are you talking about, you know, should I say, a 
     data analysis model? Like, there are so many, you get? Okay, they're not so
     many, but you get what I'm talking about. A book, a book is specific, a 
     book is just under risk management and position sizing. Okay, it's very 
     specific. A book is, in fact, for an agent to deploy a book, I have to be 
     in the loop. Okay, and a book has specific metrics and variables. They are 
     very, very specific. Okay, these are things that we measure. That's why we 
     are introducing multiple variants of a specific trading strategy. That's 
     why a book, I don't think it should be under a card. About now, about is a 
     combination of many things. So, when you say a level or trigger, a level 
     and a trigger are under a bot, together with the other thing I was talking 
     about in the last session called Confluence, but that alone doesn't make up
     a bot because it can contain multiple confluences. We can create a very 
     heavy bot. We can create a bot that does only mini version, we can create a
     bot that does combines both mini version and choppy markets. Like, the sky
     is the limit. So, for card number three, I feel like, yes, again, I'll say
     this again and again. You are on the right track, but it is too abstract, 
     and I think you need to dig deep before you propose this. This takes me 
     back to what I was saying yesterday in the other session: that we need to 
     try and bite off as little, okay, not as little, but the part that we can 
     actually handle in one go. Because I can decide to start another session 
     and we handle some other part as long as the core components are being 
     coded at the moment. You get me Then you look at the agent page. now this 
     right here is good, but I feel like no, let's first build the library. If 
     you, for example, you're an agent right now, right? If you were told to use
     React and you've never actually seen React, you'll need proper 
     documentation, right? But the thing is, we can't front-load an agent page 
     without having proper documentation because this right here is incomplete. 
     QMF is very incomplete, in my opinion. Because if we are still just 
     ideating, where are we proposing an actual agent page? Maybe I've 
     misunderstood it. You are saying one printed page a feature agent reads 
     that builds things in QMF. You are saying the forms for a level, a trigger,
     and I think three and four are very correlated, and it still goes back to 
     my thing. I feel like you are undermining the level of depth that these 
     things have because we can just have a session where we are creating our 
     own triggers. Do you know what a trigger is in QML? If I look at my notes 
     here, for example, we can do multi-time frame analysis. Triggers for only 
     multi-time frame analysis. That can be a session that goes on for two days 
     under QMX itself. I don't know if you are seeing the depth of this. It's 
     actually not as simple as you think. Because a trigger is the exact event 
     that puts you into a trade. Okay, let's say we just decide to build our own
     versions of triggers. Then what? How is QMF meant to help me? Let's say, 
     because there are many things we can use as triggers, there are many things
     we can use as levels. I don't know if you get me. It's not one thing. 
     Okay, we can decide to make many variants and then we can also decide to 
     make many combinations of those variants. Then we can decide, because even 
